# vr-learning
Improving Learning with Simple Immersive Virtual Environments

With the recent release of affordable head-mounted stereoscopic displays (HMDs), immersion into a virtual reality (VR) is more accessible than it has ever been before. The latest example of this technology is the Oculus Rift. In our study, we investigate the potential of using HMDs to aid in the learning of new information. This is not a new concept, and has already been the topic of several studies. However, while preceding studies have explored complex learning exercises in high-fidelity VR environments, our study asks a simple question: can VR environments aid in learning by reducing the cognitive load created by a chaotic physical environment? In our study, participants review flashcards to learn material. Using a pre/post test, we measure their ability to recall material and compare learning results in three different environments: (1) a calm physical environment with flashcards, (2) a chaotic physical environment with flashcards, and (3) a chaotic physical environment with the participant immersed in a virtual calm environment using virtual flashcards created by an Oculus Rift and noise-cancelling headphones. Based on past psychology research, learning performance is higher in a calm physical environment compared to a chaotic physical environment. We expect a simulated calm VR environment to reduce cognitive load and approximate the cognitive load found in a calm physical environment. Thus, we hypothesize that learning performance is greater in a simulated calm environment using VR compared to a chaotic physical environment. Many environments in the education ecosystem can be chaotic, such as a noisy high school lunchroom or college dorm. Often, these environments are difficult or impossible to avoid. The results of our study improve understanding of how new VR technology can be used to help improve learning where chaotic physical environments are difficult to avoid.
